Http 2.0 support for Choreo Connect (#5958)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/http-2.md

> Choreo Connect is able to support HTTP 2.0 (HTTP/2) in both incoming connections from clients to gateway and from gateway to endpoints. For more information on HTTP/2 and its benefits, refer to the [HTTP/2 homepage](https://http2.github.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choreo Connect is able to support HTTP 2.0 (HTTP/2) in both incoming connections from clients to the Gateway and from the Gateway to endpoints. For more information on HTTP/2 and its benefits, refer to the [HTTP/2 homepage](https://http2.github.io/).
```

## How HTTP 2.0 connections are created

There are few cases to consider as discussed below.

### HTTP/2 clear text connection with h2c upgrade call

> When HTTP/2 client can asks server to upgrade to HTTP/2 by using a HTTP/1.1 call with some special headers as you can see in the below snippet called Connection, Upgrade (h2c means HTTP/2 with clear text), HTTP2-Settings headers in the request. If the server is able to upgrade it responds again with HTTP/1.1 call with connection: upgrade, upgrade: h2c headers and then again respond to the initial actual request using HTTP/2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP/2 client can request the server to upgrade to HTTP/2 by using a HTTP/1.1 call with some special headers as you can see in the below snippet called `Connection`, `Upgrade` (h2c means HTTP/2 with clear text), and `HTTP2-Settings` headers in the request. If the server is able to upgrade, it sends a response again with HTTP/1.1 call with `connection: upgrade` and `upgrade: h2c` headers and again responds to the initial actual request using HTTP/2.
```

```yaml
$ curl --http2 http://localhost:2350/hello -v
*   Trying ::1:2350...
* Connected to localhost (::1) port 2350 (#0)
> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:2350
> User-Agent: curl/7.77.0
> Accept: */*
> Connection: Upgrade, HTTP2-Settings
> Upgrade: h2c
> HTTP2-Settings: AAMAAABkAAQCAAAAAAIAAAAA
> 
* Mark bundle as not supporting multiuse
< HTTP/1.1 101 Switching Protocols
< connection: upgrade
< upgrade: h2c
* Received 101
* Using HTTP2, server supports multi-use
* Connection state changed (HTTP/2 confirmed)
* Copying HTTP/2 data in stream buffer to connection buffer after upgrade: len=0
* Connection state changed (MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS == 4294967295)!
< HTTP/2 200 
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```

### HTTP/2 clear text connection with prior knowledge

> If the client already knows that server also supports HTTP/2 then client can directly send requests with HTTP/2 like below and server will respond with HTTP/2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the client already knows that the server also supports HTTP/2 then the client can directly send requests with HTTP/2 like below and the server responds with HTTP/2.
```

> If the client already knows that the server also supports HTTP/2 then the client can directly send requests with HTTP/2 like below and the server responds with HTTP/2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the client already knows that the server also supports HTTP/2, the client can directly send requests with HTTP/2 like below and the server responds with HTTP/2.
```

```yaml
$ curl --http2-prior-knowledge http://localhost:2350/hello -v
*   Trying ::1:2350...
* Connected to localhost (::1) port 2350 (#0)
* Using HTTP2, server supports multi-use
* Connection state changed (HTTP/2 confirmed)
* Copying HTTP/2 data in stream buffer to connection buffer after upgrade: len=0
* Using Stream ID: 1 (easy handle 0x14e011600)
> GET /hello HTTP/2
> Host: localhost:2350
> user-agent: curl/7.77.0
> accept: */*
> 
* Connection state changed (MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS == 4294967295)!
< HTTP/2 200 
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```

### HTTP/2 encrypted text (TLS) connection

> When the client and server needs to do encrypted text communication, then the client and the server can negotiate to a protocol version when creating a session using ALPN protocol (prior to sending the HTTP request as opposed to clear text case described above). See the following example snippet it has printed `ALPN, server accepted to use h2` which means HTTP calls going to happen using HTTP/2 version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the client and server needs to do encrypted text communication, the client and the server can negotiate a protocol version when creating a session using ALPN protocol (prior to sending the HTTP request as opposed to the clear text case described above). See the following example snippet it has printed `ALPN, server accepted to use h2`, which means HTTP calls will happen using HTTP/2 version.
```

* TLSv1.2 (OUT), TLS handshake, Client key exchange (16):
* TLSv1.2 (OUT), TLS change cipher, Change cipher spec (1):
* TLSv1.2 (OUT), TLS handshake, Finished (20):
* TLSv1.2 (IN), TLS change cipher, Change cipher spec (1):
* TLSv1.2 (IN), TLS handshake, Finished (20):
* SSL connection using TLSv1.2 / ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
* ALPN, server accepted to use h2
* Server certificate:
*  subject: O=mockBackend Inc.; CN=mockBackend
*  start date: Nov  8 09:15:42 2021 GMT
*  expire date: Nov  6 09:15:42 2031 GMT
*  subjectAltName: host "localhost" matched cert's "localhost"
*  issuer: O=mockBackend Inc.; CN=mockBackend
*  SSL certificate verify ok.
* Using HTTP2, server supports multi-use
* Connection state changed (HTTP/2 confirmed)
* Copying HTTP/2 data in stream buffer to connection buffer after upgrade: len=0
* Using Stream ID: 1 (easy handle 0x13680e800)
> GET /hello HTTP/2
> Host: localhost:2351
> user-agent: curl/7.77.0
> accept: */*
> 
* Connection state changed (MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS == 4294967295)!
< HTTP/2 200 
< content-length: 0
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
```

## Choreo Connect HTTP 2.0 Configuration

## Downstream configuration

> Clients can initiate HTTP connections with Choreo Connect Router using HTTP/1.1 call or HTTP/1.1 call to switch protocol to HTTP/2 (if upstream does not support HTTP/2 then fallback to HTTP/1.1) or direct HTTP/2 call (with prior knowledge). It is the default configuration which is called `AUTO`. If you want only a specific HTTP version to work then you can add following configuration to the `config.toml` file which is located in the `<CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect/conf` or `<CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect-with-apim/conf` directory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients can initiate HTTP connections with Choreo Connect Router using HTTP/1.1 call or HTTP/1.1 call to switch protocol to HTTP/2 (if upstream does not support HTTP/2 then fallback to HTTP/1.1) or direct HTTP/2 call (with prior knowledge). It is the default configuration that is called `AUTO`. If you want only a specific HTTP version to work with, you can add the following configuration to the `config.toml` file that is located in the `<CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect/conf` or `<CHOREO-CONNECT_HOME>/docker-compose/choreo-connect-with-apim/conf` directory. 
```

```yaml
[router]
  listenerCodecType = "HTTP2"
```
You can set this confuration to `AUTO`, `HTTP1`, or `HTTP2`.

## Upstream configuration

> Currently the upstream connections by default works with HTTP/1.1 version. To use HTTP/2 communications with endpoints you need to set the following swagger extension configuration for the API you deploy to the gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently the upstream connections by default works with HTTP/1.1 version. To use HTTP/2 communications with endpoints, you need to set the following Swagger extension configuration for the API you deploy to the Gateway.
```

```yaml
x-wso2-http2-backend-enabled: true
```

> Choreo Connect Router to endpoint connections are initiated only with HTTP/2 prior knowledge not with HTTP/2 upgrade calls in clear text scenario. Therefore if your endpoint only supports HTTP/1.1 then connection establishment will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choreo Connect Router to endpoint connections are initiated only with HTTP/2 prior knowledge not with HTTP/2 upgrade calls in a clear text scenario. Therefore, if your endpoint only supports HTTP/1.1 then connection establishment will fail.
```
